Dr. Belis Aladag: Next patient is Amber prior
Dr. Belis Aladag: She's here for methamphetamine use disorder. So there's no cures activity.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Hello.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Hello amber. I'm Dr. Doug, how are you
Amber Prior: I'm good, how are you
Dr. Belis Aladag: Good, good, good. So welcome to bright heart. Is this your first time with us.
Amber Prior: Yes, it is.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Well, welcome. I'm, I'm actually newer on this as well. I joined them from Kaiser last month so
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's been interesting. It's been good, you know, telemedicine. So, so tell me a bit about yourself. Tell me, like, what brings you in. I understand methamphetamine is, is your problem right now that you want to deal with.
Amber Prior: It was my problem. In the past I have an open CPS case that's requiring me to have a substance abuse treatment assessment and education.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Gotcha. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And so that we can totally provide that for you here. The way Brian heart health has we have our
Dr. Belis Aladag: Appointments set up once we do this one on one with you individually as doctor and patient we get to see each other once a week in a group setting with a therapist.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, so
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, most likely, you won't be needing medication you know people that have, you know, I have other patients that have like opioid use disorder and they need some medication or whatever.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, go. So our medical check in would
Dr. Belis Aladag: Could be very brief, and then the rest of the time you're doing the counseling, you know, you're hearing other people's stuff and then you're you're participating in the in the group thing and that would count towards your CPS, I'm sure.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And I don't know how many hours they need or whatever. But I think you should be good for you to do that and you'll rack it up quickly.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then, and then in terms of communicating with them if you have like a case manager coordinator or something you can sign a release. If you haven't already done that.
Amber Prior: Yeah, already have
Dr. Belis Aladag: We already did that. Okay, good.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That
Dr. Belis Aladag: We can communicate with them. And then finally, I would say, you know, we have one on one individual therapy sessions as well so you can meet with your assigned therapist as well. So like in a group setting will meet, but then you and that person can also meet individually.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That might be good to do once in a while if not every week because she can also support you in terms of the case right like coordinating with the case, the other person on the other side and like
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah reports and stuff like that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Yeah. Okay, so tell me how everything started for you, like in terms of, I guess, a history of substance use, tell me, like where you're a teenager when you started using
Dr. Belis Aladag: Marijuana or
Amber Prior: Drug I was a teenager. Yeah, I was a teenager and I started using marijuana and alcohol.
Amber Prior: Okay, and then I moved moved on to like cocaine. When I was like
Dr. Belis Aladag: 1818 okay
Amber Prior: Hmm.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you were using how often were using cocaine.
Amber Prior: Like on weekends.
Amber Prior: Weekends. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay then. Then what happened.
Amber Prior: Then I started using a opiates.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Go down proxies. Okay. Will you snorting or
Amber Prior: Yeah, I was snorting them. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so that was when you were 18 as well or later.
Amber Prior: Yeah, from when I was like 18 until I was about
Dr. Belis Aladag: 2020 okay so you were doing that. And then, did any of this time. Did you ever go into like a rehab or like go into treatment or anything.
Dr. Belis Aladag: No. Were you did you get into any trouble with the law or with any
Amber Prior: No, but I lost my job. And so I was struggling financially.
OK.
Dr. Belis Aladag: OK, and then
Dr. Belis Aladag: Age 20 you stop doing that. How did that happen though.
Amber Prior: The I started going
Amber Prior: started going through withdrawals from not having pills and discovered that math took that withdrawal away.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so that's how you got introduced the math.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes. Okay. And then the math. Were you smoking snorting injecting
Amber Prior: I was smoking it smoking that first and then I started just ingesting it just eating it eating. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Got it. Okay, so that was when you were 20
Amber Prior: From the time I was 20 until about 22 and then I took about a year off.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. How did that happen, you just kind of decided
Amber Prior: Yeah, I was. I was going too long and I just needed a
Amber Prior: Break from it. So I just stopped. I was able to stop.
Amber Prior: Okay, the safe place to stay, and I was able to just be able to be safe.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Stay Sober okay
Amber Prior: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Did you do any like formal stuff like did you go to a na I don't know CMA no no okay just you just stayed in a safe place and stable place. Did you get a job or what did you do in that year. Do you remember
Amber Prior: I ended up getting a job, but it was almost six months to almost a year. Actually, after I was over.
Amber Prior: Oh, right.
Amber Prior: Before that happened.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Where you got the job. Okay. And then, then what happened that was you were, by that time you were 24 now.
Amber Prior: Uh huh. And then about a year after that, I started using again.
Amber Prior: And I use that I used from like 25 until I found out I was pregnant when I was
Dr. Belis Aladag: 2929 okay
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then you found out you were pregnant and then you stopped does
Amber Prior: The day I took my pregnancy test. Yeah, okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Wow. Awesome. Great. That's amazing. So you do stop that you went through your pregnancy you delivered at what age 30 then
Amber Prior: Yes, but I delivered I delivered early very early.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh premium baby.
Amber Prior: I had preeclampsia help syndrome and my liver rupture during delivery.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh my god.
Amber Prior: So, so my baby was born, three months early
Amber Prior: I was only 28 weeks along. Wow.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh my gosh, and your liver ruptured, geez.
Amber Prior: Yeah yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, God. God bless you. You're okay now though how
Amber Prior: You look okay yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: Wow, okay. So you did that, and your baby wasn't Nick you and then the dad was the dad supportive. Were you married. Are you were you in a religion.
Amber Prior: I'm I'm married, and it was there. He was there for us.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Awesome. Okay, so at least you had that support. Okay. And the baby was in a queue and then okay then you recovered. And then what happened.
Amber Prior: I was in the hospital for a month for myself for the medical issues. The baby was in
Amber Prior: Nick you for total of three months. But right after I came out of surgery. I was in a coma for the first two weeks and CPS came and became involved because when I when I checked into when I checked into the hospital. I got there by an area ambulance. So when I checked in.
Amber Prior: Because I like I've always known to, you know, tell your doctor. The truth about drug use, just in case something happens.
Amber Prior: Sure. And so of course I told them that had prior drug use in the past, but when I found out I was pregnant.
Amber Prior: You stopped using I stopped using and all of my prenatal care I had like you know i authorized the drug testing. And I don't know if they did it but I authorize it. So they were able to
Amber Prior: To drug testing, as far as I know nothing should have dirty my baby was born, clean, I was born, or I was delivered clean
Amber Prior: But CPS became involved because I told my doctors. I had prior drug use. And so since so since I had since I had such an early delivery. They assumed that it was drug related
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh. Oh.
Amber Prior: And so then, since I was only six months pregnant, they required me to do a hair follicle test. Well, I've been using for years and years.
Amber Prior: Heavy amounts. And so my hair didn't grow very well. And so I agreed to submit a hair follicle test because I assumed that it was grown out they told me, went back three months, apparently does not goes back further than that. So,
Amber Prior: They said that I was exposed my baby to substances.
Amber Prior: And
Amber Prior: So while I'm feeling from all this and learning how to walk again and everything.
Amber Prior: I was having to deal with all the CPS thing like my babies never come home.
Amber Prior: He's been with foster care, since he got out of the hospital at three months old.
Dr. Belis Aladag: He's been with foster care. Wow, are you, are you able to see your child.
Amber Prior: Just recently I had to read. I had to move back home. I was living in Arizona at the time and I had to move back home to Northern California.
Amber Prior: And so he's still in foster care, but they're almost completed with the IC PC to get him transferred up here to my mother's house since
Amber Prior: I'm trying to do everything I can. But it's been really hard with transitioning to a new state with new insurance and everything. So my mom stepped in and said you know if it'll be faster all taking my care and then you can work from here, you know, we'll get it done so.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh. Oh, so good. Oh my god, what a story. So, the baby is an Arizona now.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah okay but but soon to be near you.
Amber Prior: Hopefully, hopefully in the next few weeks.
Amber Prior: Like the next like two or three weeks.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh my God, I just got chills. Oh, I'm so excited for you. Oh my god, what a story.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You're bringing tears to my eyes. What a story. Oh my gosh. So
Dr. Belis Aladag: Harsh. Wow.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You've been through a lot
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you're still. Are you still in recovery or have you fully. Do you feel like finally you're fully recovered like you're walking, you're feeling like
Amber Prior: I feel like I'm fully recovered. Now I'm able to work again. So
Amber Prior: Is it a lot easier. Yeah.
Amber Prior: All right directions back close up.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Are you working
Amber Prior: Well, I mean, I got laid off because of the code 19 thing but
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah.
Amber Prior: For that I was working
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. What were you doing
Amber Prior: I was working as a merchandiser through cross mark.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That's, yeah. Sorry about the job, but I'm glad you have your health, you know,
Amber Prior: Yeah yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: And soon you'll have your baby I oh and I see. And so CPS is saying. The last thing they're they're requiring. Is this like last leg of, like, Hey, be in treatment or whatever shows that you're doing this. Okay, good.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Well, this will be good for you, because it's mobile right you can be anywhere and like login
Amber Prior: And do it yeah yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: And it's helpful because you'll have peer support, you'll have supportive. The group and you'll
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's never a bad thing to hear about. Oh. How are other people dealing with life's troubles and things like that, you know,
Exactly.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And so, so since your health crisis and the delivery of the baby and all of this stuff. I'm assuming you've been sober and like staying away from everything
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yep. Yeah. Okay. Um, has HAVE, THERE HAVE BEEN MOMENTS. Like, do you feel like you're close to relapse ever or like, do you feel like that. Now, how do you feel
Amber Prior: I felt like that when when I was first recovering but not now. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Good. You feel good and you said you're married, you're still married
Amber Prior: Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And your husband is not using any substances. No. Okay, so that's good. So he's there, he's supportive
Uh huh.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Um, how about cigarettes do smoke, anything you baby.
Amber Prior: I do you smoke. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's not okay. How much do you smell.
Amber Prior: Like 10 cigarettes today.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm saying so, like, half a pack a day. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Would you be interested in trying to quit that can we give you like not right now. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Then let me know if you want that I need, I need one vice, at least through like up one buys
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, you can have the one buys but if you know we have the patches. I can give the GM or the laws and john top, you know, you could use combo. Okay, just let me know.
Amber Prior: Actually, I was looking into there's medication, you can get right
Amber Prior: And children.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, there's two different ones. Yep.
Amber Prior: Okay, because I tried the patches before and they give me horrible leg cramps and horrible, horrible nightmares. So
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, so no them.
Amber Prior: So I want if I wanted to, we'd be able to do like a like a medication and said,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Absolutely, yeah. We could try the Wellbutrin option or the chanting Chantix works really well, although I will say Chantix also causes
Dr. Belis Aladag: Very vivid dreams, they say.
Amber Prior: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, some people are bothered. Some people are not. But yeah, there's this thing with the nicotine and the dreams.
Amber Prior: There's a guy there.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, um, but yeah. But yeah, it works well we could do either Wellbutrin or Chantix just let me know.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so you have that suicidal ideation like history of suicide or any risk of that right now.
Amber Prior: No, no.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay um surgeries. So like during this was this, this was a vaginal delivery, but this
Amber Prior: Was this was a C section.
Dr. Belis Aladag: C. So, which
Amber Prior: Which then turned into a so they cut like a regular C section like horizontally.
Amber Prior: Yeah. And then when they opened it, they saw a massive amount of blood and so they had to open me vertically, all the way to my, to the bottom of my breasts completely open so they could pack my liver with with packing material.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see. Wow.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay. So you had you had abdominal surgery.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, C section converted into an abdominal surgery for your liver.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, help the liver bleeding stopped. Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so those are the two surgeries. Have you had surgeries. Prior to that, no, no. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Do you have now that after the baby was born, you didn't have any blood pressure problems or anything, is that
Amber Prior: I've had it before I was pregnant, and I still have it. Now I actually need a refill my medication, since I can't get into my doctor. Oh, stay at home.
Amber Prior: Because of the stay at home order.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, I see. Let me see.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Can you hear
Dr. Belis Aladag: My pop up for me here.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you had blood pressure before
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, high blood pressure,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Medications
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: medication history. Okay, so what blood pressure meds are you on or
Amber Prior: I am looking him up right now. I'm looking at my prescriptions. I know one of them is an isetta pain.
Dr. Belis Aladag: The Fed opinion. Okay.
Amber Prior: And the other one is
Dr. Belis Aladag: Do you know how much and if I'd have been 1020
Amber Prior: Yeah, I'll have all of that information just
Amber Prior: One second.
Amber Prior: I'm trying to open up my my prescription stuff online.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Sure, sure, sure. You can do that. And are you able to get access to your refills.
Amber Prior: Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, good. So I don't need to prescribe it. I'll just put it in our system.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Are you allergic to any meds.
Amber Prior: I am not.
Dr. Belis Aladag: About any family history. Mom, Dad, grandparents siblings with
Dr. Belis Aladag: Any medical problems or substance abuse problems or anything.
Amber Prior: No substance abuse problems both have hypertension on both sides in cancer or on my mother's side.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Amber Prior: So I have developing extended release 60 milligrams
Okay.
Amber Prior: And again,
Amber Prior: I take two of those by mouth every day. No. Take one every
Amber Prior: Take one tablet by mouth every day.
Okay.
Amber Prior: And then libido all
Amber Prior: Okay 200 milligrams
Amber Prior: One tablet twice a day.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Twice a day. Okay, so you take those three. The to Libya laws and one defensive team.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes. Okay. Yeah, you should get your results so that you're not. Your blood pressure's control. It sounds like yeah, if your mom has it. Your dad has it been blood pressure problem is a. It's just a genetic thing for you guys.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah. But did anyone else in the family have this help syndrome preeclampsia issue.
Amber Prior: No, nothing like this.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Wow that's so scary man. I mean, you're lucky to be alive. I'm so glad you're okay and that you recovered. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I think it's a bit scary for you, but also your family like your mom and
Amber Prior: Yeah, especially since we were so far away. We were in Arizona, but it was like an 18 hour drive
Amber Prior: A hard so
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, and your husband must have been holding down the fort, you know, trying to communicate.
Amber Prior: Yeah, and us you know he's having a hard time
Dr. Belis Aladag: Well yeah we're good. Okay. Well, anyway. Wow. What a story. Thank you for sharing all that with me and
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, I think, I think this will be a good fit like
Dr. Belis Aladag: In terms of what group to join, you know, like I said, a lot of my patients right now are opioid people that are using opioids and or trying to get off of them.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Just so you know, but there are people that also have math problems in there to make sense. So it's just you know it is what it is.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So four times there's a women's group.
Dr. Belis Aladag: They're all women. They're nice a nice group at 10am on Mondays.
Dr. Belis Aladag: We could do 10am Monday there.
Amber Prior: Is there any afternoon stuff.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So the afternoon. There's a Thursday or Friday at 4pm
Amber Prior: Let's say Thursday.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thursday 4pm you want to do that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'll put you into the Thursday for group.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Number four. Okay. And then, like I said, you're assigned, you're probably assigned to a serene Serena is going to be
Dr. Belis Aladag: Running that group with me. So you'll get to meet her that then to and you can decide if you want to do one on one visits, mate. Like I said, it might be a good idea, just for
Dr. Belis Aladag: record keeping sake. And just to have somebody as your advocate with the CPS stuff. I would recommend it. You don't have to be over weekly but you know
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But the right thing. We do weekly and then we see how it goes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: All right, Mr. I thank you and
Dr. Belis Aladag: Take care of yourselves, they say.
Amber Prior: Thank you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Bye bye.
Amber Prior: Bye bye.